\n--- 0212212v1.pdf ---\narXiv:math/0212212v1  [math.OC]  16 Dec 2002
SUBMITTED AS A REGULAR PAPER TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ROBOTICS AND AUTOMATION
1
Coverage control for mobile sensing networks
Jorge Cort´es, Sonia Mart´ınez, Timur Karatas, Francesco Bullo, Member IEEE
Abstract—This paper presents control and coordination al-
gorithms for groups of vehicles. The focus is on autonomous
vehicle networks performing distributed sensing tasks where
each vehicle plays the role of a mobile tunable sensor. The
paper proposes gradient descent algorithms for a class of
utility functions which encode optimal coverage and sens-
ing policies. The resulting closed-loop behavior is adaptive,
distributed, asynchronous, and veriﬁably correct.
Keywords—
Coverage
control,
distributed
and
asyn-
chronous algorithms, centroidal Voronoi partitions
I. Introduction
Mobile sensing networks
The deployment of large groups of autonomous vehi-
cles is rapidly becoming possible because of technological
advances in networking and in miniaturization of electro-
mechanical systems. In the near future large numbers of
robots will coordinate their actions through ad-hoc com-
munication networks and will perform challenging tasks
including search and recovery operations, manipulation in
hazardous environments, exploration, surveillance, and en-
vironmental monitoring for pollution detection and esti-
mation. The potential advantages of employing teams of
agents are numerous. For instance, certain tasks are diﬃ-
cult, if not impossible, \n--- 1705.02723v3.pdf ---\narXiv:1705.02723v3  [cs.IT]  6 Jan 2018
1
Joint Trajectory and Communication Design for
Multi-UAV Enabled Wireless Networks
Qingqing Wu, Member, IEEE, Yong Zeng, Member, IEEE, and Rui Zhang, Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have attracted
signiﬁcant interest recently in assisting wireless communication
due to their high maneuverability, ﬂexible deployment, and
low cost. This paper considers a multi-UAV enabled wireless
communication system, where multiple UAV-mounted aerial base
stations (BSs) are employed to serve a group of users on the
ground. To achieve fair performance among users, we maximize
the minimum throughput over all ground users in the down-
link communication by optimizing the multiuser communication
scheduling and association jointly with the UAVs’ trajectory and
power control. The formulated problem is a mixed integer non-
convex optimization problem that is challenging to solve. As
such, we propose an efﬁcient iterative algorithm for solving it
by applying the block coordinate descent and successive convex
optimization techniques. Speciﬁcally, the user scheduling and
association, UAV trajectory, and transmit power are alternately
optimized in each iteration. In particular, for the non-convex UAV
trajectory and transmit power optimization problems, two ap-
proximate convex optimization problems are solved, respectively.
We further show that the proposed algorithm is guaranteed to
converge. To speed up the algorithm convergence and achieve\n--- 37402.37406.pdf ---\n(~) ~ 
Computer Graphics, Volume 21, Number 4, July 1987 
Flocks, Herds, and Schools: A Distributed Behavioral Model 
Craig W. Reynolds 
Symbolics Graphics Division 
1401 Westwood Boulevard 
Los Angeles, California 90024 
(Electronic mail: cwr@Symbolics.COM) 
Abstract 
The aggregate motion of a flock of birds, a herd of land ani- 
mals, or a school of fish is a beautiful and familiar part of the 
natural world. But this type of complex motion is rarely seen in 
computer animation. This paper explores an approach based 
on simulation as an alternative to scripting the paths of each 
bird individually. The simulated flock is an elaboration of a 
particle system, with the simulated birds being the particles. 
The aggregate motion of the simulated flock is created by a 
distributed behavioral model much like that at work in a natu- 
ral flock; the birds choose their own course. Each simulated 
bird is implemented as an independent actor that navigates ac- 
cording to its local perception of the dynamic environment, the 
laws of simulated physics that rule its motion, and a set of 
behaviors programmed into it by the "animator." The aggre- 
gate motion of the simulated flock is the result of the dense 
interaction of the relatively simple behaviors of the individual 
simulated birds. 
Categories and Subject Descriptors: 1.2.10 [Artificial Intelli- 
gence]: Vision and Scene Understanding; 1.3.5 [Computer 
Graphics]: Computational Geometry and Object Modeling; 
1.3.7 [Computer Graph\n--- dias06market.pdf ---\nMarket-Based Multirobot Coordination:
A Survey and Analysis
M. Bernardine Dias, Robert Zlot, Nidhi Kalra, and Anthony Stentz
CMU-RI-TR-05-13
April 2005
Robotics Institute
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
c⃝Carnegie Mellon University
\n--- yang2010graphconn.pdf ---\nAutomatica 46 (2010) 390–396
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Automatica
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/automatica
Brief paper
Decentralized estimation and control of graph connectivity for mobile
sensor networks
$
P. Yang a, R.A. Freeman b,∗, G.J. Gordon c, K.M. Lynch a, S.S. Srinivasa d, R. Sukthankar d
a Department of Mechanical Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208-3111, United States
b Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208-3118, United States
c School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, United States
d Intel Research, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, United States
a r t i c l e
i n f o
Article history:
Received 17 September 2008
Received in revised form
20 July 2009
Accepted 5 November 2009
Available online 11 December 2009
Keywords:
Connectivity
Decentralized control
Graph theory
Numerical algorithms
Autonomous mobile robots
a b s t r a c t
The ability of a robot team to reconfigure itself is useful in many applications: for metamorphic robots
to change shape, for swarm motion towards a goal, for biological systems to avoid predators, or for
mobile buoys to clean up oil spills. In many situations, auxiliary constraints, such as connectivity between
team members or limits on the maximum hop-count, must be satisfied during reconfiguration. In this
paper, we show that both the estimation and control of the graph connectivity can be accomplished in